Javascript dependent styling (#364)
springernature/frontend-playbook: practices/javascript-styling.md

# Javascript dependent styling

> A class name of `.js` on the document root element (normally `html`) will be used to bootstrap JS-only visual styles. We do this to prevent the visual flicker and browser reflow that may occur when JavaScript applies CSS styles to a component after the page has loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A class name of `.js` on the document root element (normally `html`) is used to target JS-only visual styles via CSS. We do this to minimise any visual flickering and browser reflows that may occur when JavaScript applies CSS styles to a component after the page has loaded.
```

I _think_ my suggestion is a little more accurate. But I am not clear on what the second sentence is saying -- it doesn't I think prevent reflows etc? Or is this in comparison to another, unmentioned technique?

Reviewer 2: Maybe "JS-dependent" rather than "JS-only".

Reviewer: nice, done ty

## Scripts

> The `.js` class must be added via a micro (but blocking) script, placed as far up in the `<head>` of the document as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.js` class must be added via a micro (but blocking) script, placed as far up in the `<head>` of the document as possible.

The blocking nature of the script prevents any visual flickering or browser reflows, unlike other techniques where JavaScript may cause CSS styles to be applied after the page has rendered.
```

Is this what we are driving at?

Author: Yep, exactly this (at least this is also my assumption, @sonniesedge wrote it!)

Reviewer 2: Yup, that's exactly it. Although I can't remember writing this. 

If it's a success I shall claim credit. If not, Alex wrote it and blamed me.

```html
<script>
    // JS Detection Script
    (function(e){var t=e.documentElement,n=e.implementation;t.className='js';})(document)
</script>
```

## Styles

> All UI elements MUST be usable and visually-acceptable when Javascript is not present. Enhancements can be made when Javascript is present by nesting those styles underneath the `.js` class.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add at the end "As always with [Progressive Enhancement](progressive-enhancement.md), try building the core version first, delivering it quickly to stakeholders. Then build and deliver the enhanced version in a subsequent iteration."

All UI elements MUST be usable and visually-acceptable when Javascript is not present. Enhancements can be made when Javascript is present by nesting those styles underneath the `.js` class.

> Following the principles of [Progressive Enhancement](./progressive-enhancement.md), consider buiding and releasing your core unenhanced version first. Then build and deliver the javascript enhanced version in a subsequent iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following the principles of [Progressive Enhancement](./progressive-enhancement.md), consider building and releasing your core unenhanced version first. Then build and deliver the Javascript enhanced version in a subsequent iteration.
```
